>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, let's keep
moving forward with our exercise 1.
We wanna do some more interesting things
than just print out some static help text.
First thing that we want to do is try
to get some input into our program, but
we're not gonna use stdin yet.
So there are other ways of getting input
from the outer system into our program.
And one of the most common of those is
to use the command line parameters.
So if we're on a command line,
and we say something like ex1.js,
and then we say, hello=world.
That's some input,
that's a command line parameter that
is gonna come into our program.
And we wanna be able to access
that command line parameter.
So how are we gonna do that?
Well, first off, what we're gonna
do is access the arguments that
were passed to our program by
way of another of the exposures
of the POSIX, which is process.args,
args is plural.
Process.args will be an array of
all of the arguments that were
passed in from the executing shell.
So if we were to do
console.log(process.args),
that's gonna let us see the array and
see what's being passed into our program.
Whoops, sorry.
It's process.argv.
That's probably why it was in
the wrong syntax highlighting [LAUGH].
Okay, it's process.argv because that's the
traditional name from the C programming.
We called it argv for the list of
arguments, and argc for the count.
Now when we run it,
we'll see an array of the arguments.
Now, you'll notice that we have two
arguments at the top which we probably
don't really actually
care that much about.
We've got the argument that is
the location where my node is installed,
and then the fully qualified
path to my ex1.js.
That also is not something that typically
your program is gonna care that
much about.
So what we typically will do is just
slice off the first two of those,
so process.argv.slice(2).
And then when we run it again,
we'll now see that it's just
an array of the single parameter.
And of course if I were to call it
again and pass in extra parameters,
like that, we notice that that
comes in as another entry in it.
Now, there are a bunch of different
conventions for how command line arguments
get specified on the command line.
So there's this dash
dash long parameter name.
There's a single dash with
a short parameter name,
there's single dash with
a space in between.
There's a bunch of different ways that
are a bunch of different conventions for
the way parameters get specified.
And you'll notice that none of that
parsing is happening for us by node.
So we could do our own regular
expression parsing and
come up with the parsing rules for
all those various different conventions.
But that's a bunch of work that
we shouldn't do ourselves.
So we're gonna go back and use a package,
one that's already installed for you,
but the name of this
package is called minimist.
So we're gonna grab minimist.
We're gonna just do require("minimist").
And what that comes in, that package
that comes in, is actually a function.
So we're gonna add another parentheses
set onto it to execute that function.
And we're going to tell it what
array we want it to parse,
which is the process.argv.slice(2).
So I'm gonna copy that and put it in
here as the input to that function.
And then what comes back
from that function call
is our actual object that
has all of our args in it.
So I'm gonna set that equal to args.
We need to console.log the args [LAUGH].
>> Kyle Simpson: You'll notice
now we're getting an object back.
There's an object that has a hello
property on it with the world, and
then there's another one with c.
And you'll notice this one knew it was
a number, or it assumed it was a number.
Again, there's a bunch of conventions
around that sort of thing where if there's
a short parameter name and
then something looks like a number,
it's assumed to be a number
instead of a string.
So you don't wanna go reinvent all of
those wheels, minimist does that for us.
The underscore over here,
by the way, that's in this object,
this is the overflow if there's
anything else on the line that minimist
couldn't figure out what to do with.
So if I were to do a single hyphen and
something like foobar,
you'll notice that we have the hyphen and
the foobar in the underscore.
Cuz it's like,
I don't know what's happening here,
that doesn't look like
anything I can deal with.
So that's sort of the overflow if
there's stuff on the line that it hasn't
been able to parse according
to its conventions, okay?
Let's go back to our code for
a moment, and
let's observe that we can also pass
in a configuration to minimist.
So I'm gonna add a second
argument here that is an object.
And this configuration,
among other things,
is gonna allow us to control some
of the guesses that minimist makes.
So minimist might be guessing that we
want something to be a boolean, and
we want it to be a string,
for example, or vice versa.
So first off, what I wanna do
is I want to assume that help,
in particular,
help is always gonna be a boolean.
So by saying boolean and then giving
an array of parameters that I'm expecting,
and you don't need to put any
of the dash or dash dash stuff.
You just say, any parameter that's called
help, I want you to assume that's always
a boolean,
even if it comes in with a value or not.
And then we might have a different one,
and this is gonna lead to where
we're going with the exercise.
If we specified, say,
a file parameter, we want that one
to always be treated as a string.
So let's configure that string, that
anything in this list is always a string.
>> Kyle Simpson: So if we try this
again now, if we run our code,
I'm gonna say ./ex1.js,
I'm gonna say --help.
And I'll try to give it
some kind of value, and
you'll notice that it still
treats it as a boolean.
Because we have overridden
the default guessing
to tell it no matter how it's specified,
I always want it to be a boolean.
If it's present, it's true,
if it's not present, it's false, okay?
And then if we do something like --file,
and
we give it no value, that would
typically be assumed to be a boolean.
But because we've told it to be a string,
you'll notice that it comes
in as an empty string.
So we're overriding some of those
defaults, allowing us to very specifically
control we know this one should
always be treated as a string.